# Assignment 8
##README


##Assignment 7: An image processing application.

##Introduction

Many applications use color images. A good number of these provide a way to change their appearance in different ways. For example, Instagram has “filters” that convert a picture into something more interesting. They do this by editing the colors of individual dots in the image (called pixels).

This program provides functionality to generate new images, filter existing images and perform color transformations on
 existing images.
At this time,
It can perform sepia and grayscale color transformations.
It can apply blur and sharpen filters.
It can generate images for the National flags of Greece,France and Switzerland.
It can also generate images of stripes of vertical or horizontal rainbows and a checkerboard of user defined sizes.
It can now dither an image.
It can also produce the mosaic effect on an image by taking user specified seed value.
##Getting Started
Download the ImageProcessor.jar file.

In the terminal/command-prompt type\
**java -jar ImageProcessor.jar input.txt**

where input.txt has all the user commands.

##Prerequisites
Java JDK version 11.0 or greater.

##Usage
The program now takes input from the user in the form of a text file. 
Download the ImageProcessor.jar file.

In the terminal/command-prompt type\
**java -jar ImageProcessor.jar input.txt**

where input.txt has all the user commands.
All the commands must now be written on a text file. With each
argument of the command on a new line. 

To load an image:\
load \
(filepath)

To save an image:\
save\
(filepath)

To blur:\
blur

To convert to sepia:\
sepia

To conver to greyscale:\
greyscale

To dither:\
dither

To sharpen:\
sharpen

To convert to mosaic:\
mosaic\
(seed value)

To generate the flag of Switzerland:\
Switzerland\
(width in pixels)

To generate the flag of Greece:\
Greece
(pixel width)\
(pixel length)

To generate the flag of France:\
France\
(pixel width)

To generate a horizontal rainbow:\
Horizontal Rainbow\
(length of one stripe)\
(width of one stripe)

To generate a vertical rainbow:\
Vertical Rainbow\
(length of one stripe)\
(width of one strip)

To generate a checkered board:\
CheckeredBoard\
(pixel length of side of a square)


##Changes
The getImage() method from the ImageModel interface has been moved up to both the interfaces that 
it extends. Now both ImageManipulation and ImageGeneration have the getImage method. This has been 
done so that they can be used in standalone fashion. 

The interface ImageModel still extends ImageManipulation and ImageGeneration interfaces as before. 
It brings together all the functionality required by our application.

Since the new required functionality dither and mosaic fit perfectly into the ImageManipulation 
functionality we now have two methods dither and mosaic in the ImageManipulation interface. This 
also keeps the class hierarchy simple. There is another method in ImageManipulation called 
loadImage. This method takes a buffered image as parameter and sets it up in the model for 
processing. This improves the reusability of the object because it can be reused repeatedly with 
different images instead of creating a new model object every time a new image is to be processed.

Interface ImageGenerator has a new method resetCanvas to reset the canvas. This allows for more 
re-usability of the model object. Instead of creating a new model object every time a new Image has 
to be drawn, this method can be called to reset the canvas to a blank one of given dimensions.

Instead of one Command interface for both ImageManipulation and ImageGeneration, we now have one 
Command Interface for each. They are ImageGenerationCommand and ImageManipulationCommand. 
They work with ImageGeneration and ImageManipulation models respectively.This decision was taken 
to reduce coupling and for better reusability. Now either of ImageGeneration or Manipulation can 
be used in a standalone fashion with their respective command interfaces.

ImageProcessing constructors previously had two constructors one which will be called during image 
manipulation and other while image generation.
Both these constructors have been removed in the new implementation as every new image load/image 
generate operation required a new ImageModel

Object to be created which is not desirable.
In the latest design, there are two methods in the ImageModel class loadImage which takes in a 
BufferedImage and resetCanvas which takes in 
Height and width of the new image to be generated have been added as methods which avoids 
creating multiple image model objects.

##Citation
All pictures in this assignment are photographs taken by Nagasree Yashwanth Akula, or 
results generated by a program written by the authors. Nagasree Yashwanth Akula retains the 
ownership of these photographs and authorizes the use or modification by others for the purpose of 
this project.

##Authors
Nagasree Yashwanth Akula
Srikar Yagavandla